= ruby-saml

* To bootstrap run "bundle install" (This step is very important, we rely on a forked version of xmlcanonicalizer!)
* To build the gem run "rake build"
* To install the gem run "sudo gem install pkg/ruby-saml-x.x.x.gem"
* To run tests run "rake" or "rake spec"

== Transaction ID verification

To verify SAML response ID's match the outgoing request, clients of this gem must do two things:
1 - Cache the outgoing transaction ID.
2 - Provide the SAML library the cached transaction ID.

For example, in a Rails application, you can store the transaction ID in the user's session as follows:

   saml_request = Onelogin::Saml::Authrequest.new
   session[:saml_transaction_id] = saml_request.transaction_id
   redirect_to(saml_request.create(settings))

Once the user returns from the IDP with a SAML response, enforce transaction ID matches as follows:

   saml_response = Onelogin::Saml::Response.new(params[:SAMLResponse])
   saml_response.settings = settings
   unless session[:saml_transaction_id]
     redirect_to(:action => "denied") and return
   end
   saml_response.expected_transaction_id = session[:saml_transaction_id]
   if saml_response.valid? and saml_response.name_id
     session[:username] = saml_response.name_id
     redirect_to "/auth/index"
   else
     redirect_to "/auth/denied"
   end

Once expected_transaction_id is set on a Onelogin::Saml::Response, all calls to valid? will
check the response's ID against the provided id.

== Rake tasks

To access rake tasks provided by ruby-saml, include the following in your Rakefile:

   require 'onelogin/saml/tasks'

ruby-saml includes the following rake tasks:

* saml:gen_cert - Generate a self-signed certificate and private key pair, saving them to ./config/saml_certs
* saml:gen_sp_metadata - Generate a service provider metadata file based on config information in ./config/sp.yml

An example sp.yml to get you started: 

   issuer: saml-example
   consumer_url: http://saml.example.com/authenticate
   name_id_format:
     - urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:transient
     - urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress
   cert_file: ./config/saml_certs/saml.cer
   private_key_file: ./config/saml_certs/saml.key
   private_key_password: passphrase_for_saml_key

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
  bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.
